add RFC utility changes (#6)
elorzafe/amplify-types: RFC.md

# RFC: Amplify JS TypeScript Improvements

# General TypeScript Improvements

- Version upgrade
- Strict mode

# Utility Changes

Amplify is proposing the following changes for our core utilities.

## TypeScript support for Amplify Hub channels

We are improving **_DX_** by adding strict type support to Hub channels, events, and payloads. An example of the developer experience when listening for `auth` events is highlighted below.

> **Amplify v5 & v6 (`aws-amplify@^5`)**

Reviewer: Why `& v6`?

Author: because API in v5 and v6 are the same, what is changing is DX

Reviewer 2: This was feedback I provided in my review, in this case the example code is identical for both v5 & v6, the only difference is type support. I figured we could have sample code + screen shots to show the improved intellisense.

```Typescript
const channel = "auth"
const signInFailureEvent = "signInFailure"
const signInFailureData = new AuthError("sign-in failed")

// It doesn't show a list of all supported channels, and it is not able to infer the right data given an event.
Hub.dispatch("auth", {
  event: "signInFailure",
  data: new AuthError("Sign-in failed"),

> })

Reviewer: it feels odd to have `Hub.dispatch("auth"...)` why do you need that?

Author: we dispatch `auth` events

// Note: If an event is assigned the null type, the payload object will not contain a data key.
type customEventDataMap = {
  A: number;
  B: string;
  C: null;
  D: Object
}

Hub.dispatch<customChannel, customEventDataMap >("custom_channel", {
  event: "A" , // Union type of all possible events A | B | C | D
  data: 42
})

Hub.listen<customChannel, customEventDataMap>("custom_channel", ({payload}) => {
  switch(payload.event) {
    case "A":
      payload.data; // data - number
      break
    case "B":
      payload.data // data - string
      break
    case "C":
      payload.data // it errors, there is no a data key on the payload object
      break
    case "D":
      payload.data // data - Object
      break
  }
})
```

## TypeScript support for Amplify Configuration

To help customers configure Amplify categories, we are introducing type support for the `Amplify.configure` API. The examples below demonstrate an `Auth` configuration.

**Amplify v5 (`aws-amplify@5`)**

```Typescript
const authConfig = {
  userPoolId: "us-east-1_0yqxxHm5q",
  userPoolClientId: "3keodiqtm52nhh2ls0vQfs5v1q",
  signUpVerificationMethod: "code"

> }

Reviewer: Why not highlight the fact that is not type and you can make typo mistakes?

Author: yeah I'm gonna add screen shoots showing that

Amplify.configure({
  Auth: authConfig
})

```

**Amplify v6 (`aws-amplify@6`)**

```Typescript
const authConfig:AuthConfig = {
  userPoolId: "us-east-1_0yqxxHm5q",
  userPoolClientId: "3keodiqtm52nhh2ls0vQfs5v1q",
  signUpVerificationMethod: "code"
}

Amplify.configure({
  Auth: authConfig

> })

Reviewer: Can we also show that other keys will expect `ts-error`?

# RFC: Amplify JS TypeScript Improvements

# General TypeScript Improvements

- Version upgrade
- Strict mode

# Utility Changes

> Amplify is proposing the following changes for the `Core` category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Amplify is proposing the following changes for our core utilities.
```

"Core" as a category is kind of an internal abstraction that customers might not be aware of, e.g. in docs we just group all of these under "utilities".

> ## Typescript support for Amplify Hub channels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## TypeScript support for Amplify Hub channels
```

We are improving **_DX_** by adding strong type inference on Hub events and payload data.

> We are adding a list of all supported Amplify channels and providing events and data types on the payload object. Bellow is an example with the `Auth` category.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are improving **_DX_** by adding strict type support to Hub channels, events, and payloads. An example of the developer experience when listening for `auth` events is highlighted below.
```

> **Amplify v5 (`aws-amplify@5`)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Amplify v5 & v6 (`aws-amplify@^5`)**
```

For hub, since the API isn't changing at all I wonder if we should just present some example code which applies to both versions and then have your screen shots under `**Amplify v5 DX**` & `**Amplify v6 DX**` headers?

Author: agree

```Typescript
import {Hub} from "aws-amplify"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

We should omit imports from the sample code IMO

const channel = "auth"
const signInFailureEvent = "signInFailure"

> const signInFailureData = new AuthError("sign-in failed")

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we could just do these inline? (see proposed change below) If not (I'm ambivalent), use `signInFailureEvent` in your listener example as well.

> // It doesn't show a list of all supported channels, and it is not able to infer the right data given an event.

Reviewer 2: We can remove these comments I think since we'll have the screen shots showing the differences in DX.

Author: got it

Hub.dispatch(channel,{
  event: signInFailureEvent,
  data: signInFailureData

>   })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.dispatch("auth", {
  event: "signInFailure",
  data: new AuthError("Sign-in failed"),
})
```

// Events and payload data are not inferred.
Hub.listen(channel, ({ payload }) => {
	switch (payload.event) { // event - string
		case "signInFailure":
			const data = payload.data; // data - any
			break;
	}

> });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.listen(channel, ({ payload }) => {
  switch (payload.event) {
    case "signInFailure":
      const data = payload.data;
      break;
  }
});
```

```

> **Amplify v6 (`aws-amplify@6`)**

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, I think we can remove the v6 sample code in favor of DX screen shots since it's identical.

```Typescript
import {Hub} from "aws-amplify"

const channel = "auth"
const signInFailureEvent = "signInFailure"
const signInFailureData = new AuthError("sign-in failed")

// By default, the dispatch API will provide a list of all Amplify supported channels.
// Addionally, it shows all the events and data associated to a given channel.
Hub.dispatch(channel,
 {
  event: signInFailureEvent ,
  data: "string" // it errors as "string" is not AuthError
} )

// It listens for events associated to a channel and infers the right payload data on the switch statement.
Hub.listen(channel, ({ payload }) => {
	switch (payload.event) { // event - signIn | signInFailure | signUp | signUpFailure | ...etc
		case "signInFailure":
			const data = payload.data; // data - AuthError
			break;
	}
});
```

> ## Typescript support for custom Hub channels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## TypeScript support for custom Hub channels
```

> We are introduccing strong type inference for custom hub channels and payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are improving **_DX_** by adding strict type support to custom Hub channels, events, and payloads.
```

(just for consistency between sections)

**Amplify v5 (`aws-amplify@5`)**

```Typescript
import {Hub} from "aws-amplify"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> const channel = "custom"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const customChannel = "custom_channel"
```

All about consistency :P

const customEvent = "custom_event"
const customData = "custom_data"

> Hub.dispatch(channel,{
>   event: customEvent,
>   data: customData
>   })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.dispatch(channel, {
  event: customEvent,
  data: customData
})
```

> Hub.listen(channel, ({ payload }) => {
> 	switch (payload.event) { // event - string
> 		case customEvent:
> 			const data = payload.data; // data - any
> 			break;
> 	}
> });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.listen(channel, ({ payload }) => {
  switch (payload.event) {
    case customEvent:
      const data = payload.data;
      break;
  }
});
```

```

**Amplify v6 (`aws-amplify@6`)**

```Typescript
import {Hub} from "aws-amplify"

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

// name of the channel

> type channel = "custom"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
type customChannel = "custom_channel"
```

(consistency between samples)

// Each key in the map represents a payload event and the key value is the data type for that event.
// Note: If an event is assigned the null type, the payload object will not contain a data key.
type customEventDataMap = {
  A: number;
  B: string;
  C: null;
  D: Object
}

> Hub.dispatch<channel, customEventDataMap >("custom", {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.dispatch<customChannel, customEventDataMap >("custom_channel", {
```

  event: "A" , // Union type of all possible events A | B | C | D

>   data: "string" // It errors as "string" is not a number

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  data: 42
```

IMO for type errors & intellisense DX screen shots would be more effective when we want to highlight those.

})

> Hub.listen<channel, customEventDataMap>("custom", ({payload})=>{
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hub.listen<customChannel, customEventDataMap>("custom_channel", ({payload}) => {
```

  switch(payload.event) // Union type of all possible events A | B | C | D

>   {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  switch(payload.event) {
```

    case "A":
      payload.data; // data - number
      break
    case "B":
      payload.data // data - string
      break
    case "C":
      payload.data // it errors, there is no a data key on the payload object
      break
    case "D":
      payload.data // data - Object
      break
  }
})
```

> ## Typescript support Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## TypeScript support for Amplify Configuration
```

> In order to help developers to configure Amplify categories, we are introducing type support for the `Amplify.configure` API.
> This change provides IntelliSense on the configuration for each category. Example bellow shows an `Auth` configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To help customers configure Amplify categories, we are introducing type support for the `Amplify.configure` API. The examples below demonstrate an `Auth` configuration.
```

**Amplify v5 (`aws-amplify@5`)**

```Typescript

> 
> import {Amplify} from "aws-amplify"
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

const authConfig = {

>   userPoolId: "us-east-1_aaaaaaa",
>   userPoolClientId: "bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  userPoolId: "us-east-1_0yqxxHm5q",
  userPoolClientId: "3keodiqtm52nhh2ls0vQfs5v1q",
```

Just used random values to make the example look more realistic, maybe not required?

  signUpVerificationMethod: "code"
}

> // configure type is any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Amplify.configure({
  Auth: authConfig
})

```

**Amplify v6 (`aws-amplify@6`)**

```Typescript

> import {Amplify} from "aws-amplify"
> 
> // Provides different auth configurations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

const authConfig:AuthConfig = {

>   userPoolId: "us-east-1_aaaaaaa",
>   userPoolClientId: "bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  userPoolId: "us-east-1_0yqxxHm5q",
  userPoolClientId: "3keodiqtm52nhh2ls0vQfs5v1q",
```
